A proposed [[Symbolic AI]] that illustrates the shortcomings of the symbolic approach to [[Artificial Intelligence]].

"Once upon a time there was a robot, named R1 by its  
creators. Its only task was to fend for itself. One day its  
designers arranged for it to learn that its spare battery,  
its precious energy supply, was locked in a room with  
a time bomb set to go offsoon. R1 located the room,  
and the key to the door, and formulated a plan to rescue  
its battery. There was a wagon in the room, and the  
battery was on the wagon, and R1 hypothesized that a  
certain action which it called PULLOUT (Wagon, Room,  
t) would result in the battery being removed from the  
room. Straightaway it acted, and did succeed in getting  
the battery out of the room before the bomb went off.  
Unfortunately, however, the bomb was also on the wagon.  
R1 knew that the bomb was on the wagon in the room,  
but didn’t realize that pulling the wagon would bring the  
bomb out along with the battery. Poor R1 had missed  
that obvious implication of its planned act. 

ack to the drawing board. ‘The solution is obvious,’  
said the designers. ‘Our next robot must be made to  
recognize not just the intended implications of its acts,  
but also the implications about their side-effects, by de-  
ducing these implications from the descriptions it uses in  
formulating its plans.’ They called their next model, the  
robot-deducer, R1D1. They placed R1D1 in much the  
same predicament that R1 had succumbed to, and as it  
too hit upon the idea of PULLOUT (Wagon, Room, t) it  
began, as designed, to consider the implications of such a  
course of action. It had just finished deducing that pulling  
the wagon out of the room would not change the colour  
of the room’s walls, and was embarking on a proof of  
the further implication that pulling the wagon out would  
cause its wheels to turn more revolutions than there were  
wheels on the wagon when the bomb exploded.

Back to the drawing board. ‘We must teach it the dif-  
ference between relevant implications and irrelevant im-  
plications,’ said the designers, ‘and teach it to ignore the  
irrelevant ones.’ So they developed a method of tagging  
implications as either relevant or irrelevant to the project  
at hand, and installed the method in their next model, the  
robot-relevant-deducer, or R2D1 for short. When they  
subjected R2D1 to the test that had so unequivocally se-  
lected its ancestors for extinction, they were surprised to  
see it sitting, Hamlet-like, outside the room containing  
the ticking bomb, the native hue of its resolution sicklied  
o’er with the pale cast of thought, as Shakespeare (and  
more recently Fodor) has aptly put it. ‘Do something!’  
they yelled at it. ‘I am,’ it retorted. ‘I’m busily ignoring  
some thousands of implications I have determined to be  
irrelevant. Just as soon as I find an irrelevant implica-  
tion, I put it on the list of those I must ignore, and...’  
the bomb went off."

[[Daniel Dennett]] (1984)
#machine #idea